It's rare in the software industry to get things right on the first try,
and if I ever do, then I immediately suspect that I just forgot something.
So it's good to know that you can easily modify your pipeline and
add stages and actions whenever you need to.
In this video,
we're going to add a new stage and a deploy action to our pipeline.
First we'll add the new stage.
Go to the CodePipeline dashboard and then select the
hbfl pipeline that we created.
Now click the Edit button.
We'll want to add the deploy stage after our build stage,
so click the Add stage button below it.
Named the stage deploy, then select Add stage.
Now our new stage has been added,
and you can even see that you can add more if you wanted to.
Remember the maximum number of stages you can have in a pipeline is 10,
so you can only add up to that amount.
The stage we just added is already in edit mode.
You can see that it differs from the other stages because it has these Cancel,
Delete, and Done buttons.
We'll need to add an action group first.
This is just a collection of actions that run in parallel.
If you don't want your actions to run in parallel,
you can just put them all in different action groups.
Click the Add action group button,
and it'll prompt you to create the first action for that group.
First, give it the name Deploy.
In the Action provider drop‑down,
scroll to the Deploy section and select Elastic Beanstalk.
The region will be automatically set to whichever region you're currently in.
Next, we'll define the input artifact.
This is what the deploy action will attempt to deploy.
Click the drop‑down, and you'll have two options.
The SourceArtifact is our source code,
and the BuildArtifact is what our build action outputs.
We want to deploy the artifact that has dependencies
installed and the built web assets, so select the BuildArtifact.
Now we need to select the EB application to deploy to.
We already created one earlier in the course,
so click in the input box and select hbfl.
Next, select the prod environment in the next input box. And that's it,
so click the Done button.
Now you can click Done on the deploy stage and review your pipeline.
If everything looks good,
scroll to the top and click the Save button and then Save again.
Whenever you make changes to your pipeline,
it won't take effect for any running executions,
and it doesn't automatically start again.
We need to manually start a new execution,
and we can do that by clicking this Release change button.
This will start an execution and pull the most recent source
from source control to run the pipeline, so click Release.
The pipeline will execute again, going through the source action,
the build action, and then finally deploying to Elastic Beanstalk.
After a few minutes, the pipeline should finish executing successfully.
I'm skipping ahead the video here, and if you click this link,
it'll take you to the application in Elastic Beanstalk.
Select the prod environment,
and then this URL link here, and the hbfl app will open in a new tab.
I want to pause right here because this is just so cool.
So we built out this pipeline to build and deploy our application,
and it's connected to source control.
So every time you push new code to the repo, it's going to build it and then
deploy it to production without any human intervention.
That's pretty amazing.
Now that we have a robust pipeline,
let's talk a little more about pipeline executions.
Whenever a pipeline is executed, a unique ID is generated for that execution.
The execution will continue through each stage and action
in your pipeline until it succeeds, fails, or is stopped.
A pipeline can be running multiple executions at one time,
but stages can only run one execution at a time.
If there are two pipeline executions running back to back,
the second one will have to wait at a stage until the first has completed it,
since an execution will lock a stage when it enters it.
If a pipeline execution fails, you can retry it.
There's also a pipeline execution state called superseded,
which means a later pipeline execution has passed it.
This usually happens when a pipeline execution is waiting before a locked
stage, and a subsequent execution catches up to it.
The previous execution will be superseded and not execute any further.
The execution that supersedes the first one will
continue once the stage is unlocked.
Also,
CodePipeline recently released a feature which allows you to stop a pipeline.
The button is at the top right of the pipeline overview and lets
you select which execution you want to stop.
Your options for stopping are to stop and wait or stop and abandon.
Stop and wait means the pipeline will enter the stopping state and
wait for any in‑progress actions to finish executing.
Then the pipeline execution will stop. Stop and abandon changes
the pipeline execution into stopping state and then abandons
any in‑progress action executions. Depending on your objective, it's usually better to select Stop and wait here.